|Miya Kazuki
|Ascendance of a Bookworm: Part 3 Adopted Daughter of an Archduke Volume 2
"[...], time spent thinking about how to make things go your way is time wasted.
The future is always an unknown; the best we can do is what we deem to be right."

|Miya Kazuki
|Ascendance of a Bookworm: Part 3 Adopted Daughter of an Archduke Volume 2
"[...] There are few matters that can be settled through idealistic philosophies."

|Isuna Hasekura and Jyuu Ayakura
|Spice and Wolf, Vol. 1
The pleasure of nostalgia is never without its companion, loneliness.

|Isuna Hasekura and Jyuu Ayakura
|Spice and Wolf, Vol. 5
A dog that burns itself on the fireplace will always be wary.
Those who approach the fireplace are the ones who think that within it smolder roasted chestnuts and are unable to forget that sweet taste.

|Isuna Hasekura and Jyuu Ayakura
|Spice and Wolf, Vol. 12
Regret could mean struggling to turn back time, or it could mean swearing not to let the same thing happen again. The two meanings were very different.

|Isuna Hasekura and Jyuu Ayakura
|Spice and Wolf, Vol. 12
After all, one could no more peer into the minds of the living than one could the dead, and there was certainly no way to act solely in the interests of another.
If you dug deeply enough, you would always arrive at the conclusion that you had acted in your own interests. The only problem was acting in such a way that you could live with yourself afterward.

|Isuna Hasekura and Jyuu Ayakura
|Spice and Wolf, Vol. 13: Side Colors III
Humans fear their own kind more than any wolf or wild animal—one of the world’s great ironies.

|Isuna Hasekura and Jyuu Ayakura
|Spice and Wolf, Vol. 13: Side Colors III
If a wolf’s fangs killed the body, then human hostility was death to the spirit.

|Isuna Hasekura and Jyuu Ayakura
|Spice and Wolf, Vol. 14
The same flower might bloom with different colors, depending on the soil and environment.

|Isuna Hasekura and Jyuu Ayakura
|Spice and Wolf, Vol. 14
But he knew that even as the sun rose, it would also set. It was nice to be alone, but only when one was not truly alone.

|Isuna Hasekura and Jyuu Ayakura
|Spice and Wolf, Vol. 14
Evidently to close your opponent's mouth, you needed only to close your own eyes.

|Isuna Hasekura and Jyuu Ayakura
|Spice and Wolf, Vol. 14
The most compelling argument would not calm a crying infant.

|Isuna Hasekura and Jyuu Ayakura
|Spice and Wolf, Vol. 14
It seemed sincerely loving someone made one’s thinking faster, but turned it in the most ridiculous directions.

|Isuna Hasekura and Jyuu Ayakura
|Spice and Wolf, Vol. 15: The Coin of the Sun I
The many people within the same receptacle known as the world were much like how various textiles were manufactured.
There were vertical threads and horizontal threads crossing each other, and there were things that would not cross in a single lifetime.
Lawrence found it a very mysterious thing.
But that was why on occasion a mysterious thread was weaved into a mysterious cloth.

|Isuna Hasekura and Jyuu Ayakura
|Spice and Wolf, Vol. 15: The Coin of the Sun I
In this world, many characters walk onto the stage.
And all of them plunge forward toward their many objectives, be they comedies or tragedies.

|Isuna Hasekura and Jyuu Ayakura
|Spice and Wolf, Vol. 16: The Coin of the Sun II
However, in the end, the world was a cloth woven between each and every person in it; the power of an individual was not great.

|Isuna Hasekura and Jyuu Ayakura
|Spice and Wolf, Vol. 16: The Coin of the Sun II
Though sometimes a previous king whose throne had been usurped was merely exiled, a former king plotting to usurp the throne was always fated to be slain.

|Isuna Hasekura and Jyuu Ayakura
|Spice and Wolf, Vol. 16: The Coin of the Sun II
The powerless always have absurd dreams. Those who have power understand well what power can accomplish.
They understand just because you can carry a boulder does not mean you can move a mountain. It is only those who play with pebbles who dream of moving a mountain.

|Isuna Hasekura and Jyuu Ayakura
|Spice and Wolf, Vol. 17: Epilogue
They were searching for a rainbow.
But it was this place, right where they stood, that was the end of the rainbow.

|Isuna Hasekura and Jyuu Ayakura
|Spice and Wolf, Vol. 17: Epilogue
Perhaps, just as belongings made one hesitate in the face of a journey, the capacity to speak made one hesitate in the face of conversation.
Yet in spite of that, the things one needed to do were very few.

|Isuna Hasekura and Jyuu Ayakura
|Spice and Wolf, Vol. 17: Epilogue
Tasty things were poison for the eyes and poison for the tongue. But one could not crave something they knew nothing about.

|Isuna Hasekura and Jyuu Ayakura
|Spice and Wolf, Vol. 17: Epilogue
It had been famously said the front of the face can lie, but the side cannot.

|Isuna Hasekura and Jyuu Ayakura
|Spice and Wolf, Vol. 17: Epilogue
One keeps trouble from stray dogs at bay by never feeding one, no matter how hungry it looks.

|Isuna Hasekura and Jyuu Ayakura
|Spice and Wolf, Vol. 18: Spring Log
“Everything fades with time.”
Do what you need to do when you need to do it—or you’ll regret it.

|Isuna Hasekura and Jyuu Ayakura
|Spice and Wolf, Vol. 18: Spring Log
But one could not live in this world with a purely straightforward manner. There were few, rare places that had straight roads—only found in towns protected by high walls.

|Isuna Hasekura and Jyuu Ayakura
|Spice and Wolf, Vol. 18: Spring Log
The world was endless, and wherever one went, it already belonged to somebody.

|Isuna Hasekura and Jyuu Ayakura
|Spice and Wolf, Vol. 18: Spring Log
The two things he learned as he grew older were that he had to understand the things he could and could not do in this world,
as well as the boldness to pretend he had not realized certain things.

|Legend of the Galactic Heroes
|Ep. 109
Attenborough: But still, humans, no, I mean groups of humans
              why do they have to shed so many billions of liters of blood
              for something that they just needed to talk about ?
Julian: Do you think it's just idiocy ?
Attenborough: I don't know.
              I don't have the right to criticize them.
              After all, I'm one of the very people who shed blood out of foppery and whim.
Julian: It certainly may be an act of idiocy.
        But when humans lose that idiocy, will they evolve for the better ?

|Legend of the Galactic Heroes
|Ep. 109
Muller: Herr Minci, I wonder which of us is more fortunate.
        When Fleet Admiral Yang passed away, you didn't know of it till it happened.
        On the other hand, we've been given time to prepare ourselves before His Majesty passes away.
        But while your sorrow began at its starting point, we first have to get to the goal
        and then start again to fill the void in our hearts,
        for those of us who are still alive, that is.
Julian: That's right.
        For those of us who are still alive, the journey continues.
        Until the time that they're to join the dead, they must continue to walk to that day, without being allowed to fly and skip.
        Still, the fact that I was able to have heartfelt friendly exchanges with the admirals of the Imperial Force is something I'm pleased with.
        But might that fact plausibly be criticized by posterity as a shameless handshake between mass-murderers ?
        Aside from posterity, I have to accept it no matter how the bereaved of the war dead denounce me.
        But there was no other way.
        In order to create the present circumstances, we had to fight first.

|Legend of the Galactic Heroes
|Ep. 110
Karin: Hey, Julian, in any case, Starzone Baalat will remain in the hands of democracy, right ?
Julian: Yeah.
        That's all, isn't it, when you think about it ?
        Right - that's all there is.
        To accomplish just this little thing, we needed 500 years of time and billions of lives.
        If only the people hadn't lost their interest in politics around the end of the Galactic Confederation.
        If only they knew how dangerous it was to give unlimited power to a despot and if only they had learned from history how many people would be made unhappy
        under a governmental system that prioritizes national profits over people's rights, we wouldn't have had to sacrifice as much as we did.
        Politics always takes vengeance on those who belittle it.

|Legend of the Galactic Heroes
|Ep. 110
The legend ends, and history begins.

|Ryuuguu Rena
|Higurashi no Naku Koro ni Rei, Ep. 4
A flower raised in a greenhouse is still beautiful, even though it knows no adversity. But a flower growing in the field that has braved wind, rain, cold, and heat possesses something more than just beauty.

|Mion Sonozaki
"Life is like a tube of toothpaste. When you’ve used all the toothpaste down to the last squeeze, that's when you've really lived. Live with all your might, and struggle as long as you have life."

|Rena Ryuugu
"Even if you lovingly collect every last piece of a shattered cup, pieces are still pieces. Once something breaks, it can never return."

|Rena Ryuugu
"There's only one world for us, and things in it are set up so that we can find happiness in it."

|Rika Furude
"You can never win if you're afraid to lose so much that you refuse to put up a fight."

|Weathering with you
The human mind works in mysterious ways.
Like you just need to see the sun shining in the morning to feel energized.
A blue sky makes you feel happy you're alive.
It makes you feel more in love with that someone by your side.
[...]
We could really influence people by the weather.
I realized how much the human heart is connected to the sky.

|Makoto Shinkai
|Weathering With You
Have you heard about how human emotions affect random number generators?
Random number generators are machines that spit out either a one or a zero based on quantum theory.
The probability's always one in two. But when there are huge disasters or other big events that shake up a lot of people,
for that one instant, they say the probability changes dramatically.
They've witnessed the phenomenon in action lots of times, all over the world.
So I had a thought. Human wishes and prayers might actually have the power to change the world for real.
Maybe there's more to our brains than just what's in our skulls. 
In some way, they may be connected to the whole world. Like how smartphones are connected to the cloud, even though you can't see it.

|Makoto Shinkai
|Weathering With You
"When people age" — Kei scrubbed at his face with both hands, just like an older man would — "they forget how to change their priorities about important stuff."

|Yusuke Kishi
|Shinsekai Yori — From the New World, Chapter III: Deep Autumn
"Where should I start? ...all problems stem from the human mind."

|Yusuke Kishi
|Shinsekai Yori — From the New World, Chapter IV: Winter's Distant Thunder
The world is full of things that should probably be left unknown. 
Don't you think that sometimes the truth is the cruelest of all? Not everyone can bear it.

|Yusuke Kishi
|Shinsekai Yori — From the New World, Chaper VI: Beacon in the Dark
The power of imagination is what changes everything.

|Philip Pullman
We don't need lists of rights and wrongs, tables of do's and don'ts: 
we need books, time, and silence. Thou shalt not is soon forgotten, but Once upon a time lasts forever.

|Ray
|The Promised Neverland, Season 2, Episode 6.
Hatred can't stop once it's begun.
And it's a chain of hatred that you can't do anything about.
That's probably what war is.

|Re:Zero – Starting Life in Another World, Ep. 46
Roswaal: I have never once forgotten the one and only vow that you and I exchanged.
Ram: Those who wield the sword should die by the sword, those who rely on magic should die by magic, and those who give themselves to fire should die by fire.
Roswaal: And those who ask favors of a demon should die by that demon.
         Whatever one relies upon should be the thing that brings about their death. 

|Denzel Washington
"Why do we close our eyes when we pray, when we cry, when we kiss, when we dream; because the most beautiful things in our life are not seen, but felt only by the heart."

|Makoto Shinkai
|your name.
The sun rises from the edge of the mountains. Little by little, the daylight washes over the lake town.
The birds in the morning, the hush at midday, the insect songs in the evening, the glitter of the night sky.
The sun rises between the buildings. Little by little, the daylight glints off countless windows.
The throngs of people in the morning, the hum of midday, the scents of everyday life at half-light, the sparkle of the streets at night.
Over and over, we’re captivated by moments like these.
And, gradually, we learn.

|Makoto Shinkai
|your name.
A mother’s gentle voice.
Then, with a brutal sensation, the umbilical cord is cut.
Even though we were all two who lived as one in the beginning, even though we were all connected, so humans are severed from the cord and fall into this life.

|Makoto Shinkai
|your name.
After the sand has completely eroded, just one thing remains. I know it’s loneliness.
In that moment, I understand. From now on, this feeling will be all that stays with me. I’ll hold nothing but loneliness, a burden someone’s forced me to take.
"Fine", I think defiantly. Even if the world is cruel, even if all I have is loneliness, I’ll still live with everything I’ve
got. Even if this emotion is all I have, I’ll keep struggling. Even if we’re separated, even if we never meet again,
I’ll fight. As if I’d ever resign myself to this! The powerful, fleeting resolution feels as though I’m picking a fight
with the gods. Very soon, I’ll forget even the fact that I’ve forgotten something.
And so, making that single emotion my foothold, I demand of the night sky one last time:
“What’s your name?”
The cry becomes an echo, rebounding off the dark mountains. Asking its question of the void over and over, it diminishes, bit by bit.
Finally, silence descends.

|Makoto Shinkai, Genki Kawamura
|your name.
"Where do human memories live?
 Are they in the synaptic circuitry of the brain? Do retinas and fingertips hold memories, too?
 Or is there an invisible, amorphous, mistlike, spiritual collective somewhere, and that’s where the memories reside?
 Something we’d call the heart or the mind or the soul.
 Is it something you can take out and stick back in, like a memory card with an OS on it?"

In the book, Taki wonders to himself about this.
Humans are mysterious creatures. We forget the important things, and all we remember are the things that don’t matter.
Unlike memory cards, we don’t have the ability to keep the important stuff and delete what we don’t need. I always wondered why that was.
However, now that I’ve read this book, I feel as if I understand, just a little.
People forget the important things.
That said, by resisting, by struggling against that, they gain life.

|Rifujin na Magonote
Mixed among the things in our lives that we discard, thinking them unnecessary, may be that which is truly precious to us.

|To Your Eternity
|Ep. 4
Pioran: "Fushi," as in "immortal," huh?
Parona: It's unfortunate for him that he can't die, though. I think it matters to humans what we spend our lives doing.
        What purpose are you supposed to find in life if you live forever?
March: Purpose?
Parona: Sorry. It's wrong of me to seek purpose in another's life and death.

|To Your Eternity
|Ep. 10
All beings, in the process of living, are met by those who stand in the way of their continued existence.
They take and destroy what comprises them, restricting what they can do.
I do not think highly of this.
The freedom to choose is a sacred thing that ought to be given to all.

|To Your Eternity
|Ep. 15
Sometimes, to change fate, you need to work with others.
Better to fight with a lot of arrows than just one.

|To Your Eternity
|Ep. 17
Freedom is to never be captured by anyone.
Is it wrong to be captured?
No, it is a stepping stone toward evolution.

|Magia Record
|Season 2, Ep. 3
Who cares about your ideal world?
Our anger, our sorrow... it can't be traded for some convenient lie.

|Magia Record
|Season 2, Ep. 4
To escape from something that's far too scary to endure. Sometimes you can choose the wrong thing.

|Okina Baba and Tsukasa Kiryu
|So I’m a Spider, So What?, Vol. 5
Everyone has things they can do and things they can’t. Trying to do the impossible anyway won’t change a thing. Just stick to what yeh can do.

|Okina Baba and Tsukasa Kiryu
|So I’m a Spider, So What?, Vol. 6
No matter the world, no matter the era, it seems that major events are always set into motion by the selfishness of one individual.

|Okina Baba and Tsukasa Kiryu
|So I’m a Spider, So What?, Vol. 6
Sometimes you take a drink, and sometimes the drink takes you.

|Okina Baba and Tsukasa Kiryu
|So I'm a Spider, So What?, Vol. 7
To know something and to understand it are two very different things.
If you don’t accept a fact as reality, you cannot really say that you understand it.
And even if you do understand it, accepting it is yet another story.
A difficult conundrum.
Instead of judging what they can or cannot do, humans make their conclusions based on what they want to do.
Their desires, their noble intentions, and their feelings toward others.
They all have different reasons, but ultimately, that is the primitive drive that moves humans to act.
If you probe deeply enough, it all comes down to the simple question of whether they want to do something or not.
Their motives are all the same; it is only the resulting directions that differ.
Although it is these differing directions that cause such problems.
Their different desires are exactly what cause humans to fight among themselves.
Since they always prioritize what they want to do individually, it leads them to clash with one another.
And if they cannot reach an agreement, it comes to blows and eventually to war.
Arguments. Violence. Military might.
In order to accomplish their personal desires, humans will use any means to push through all obstacles.

|Okina Baba and Tsukasa Kiryu
|So I’m a Spider, So What?, Vol. 9
There is no room for hope or dreams on the battlefield. Only fighting.

|Magia Record
|Season 2, Ep. 6
The rails of fate run from your past.

|To Your Eternity
|Ep. 20
Your soul is made to be a whole only when it is with your flesh.
If your body changes, that which makes you who you are will also change.

|Okina Baba and Tsukasa Kiryu
|So I’m a Spider, So What?, Vol. 11
Hitting me would only make them feel better for a few moments.
Soon enough, their hands would hurt, and their hearts would ache from the guilt.
The person who throws the punch and the person who receives it are both left with only pain.

|Okina Baba and Tsukasa Kiryu
|So I’m a Spider, So What?, Vol. 11
"People live and someday die. We cannot change that. Nor can we choose how we will die.
But what we can choose is how we live. It’s not how he died that’s important but how he carried himself in life.
Thinking about what you can do for the dead, what you could’ve done for the dead, is nothing but a form of arrogance. All the living need do is grieve the dead and remember how they lived."

|Okina Baba and Tsukasa Kiryu
|So I’m a Spider, So What?, Vol. 12
Those who stand at the top must be in possession of the corresponding amount of strength and spirit.

|Okina Baba and Tsukasa Kiryu
|So I’m a Spider, So What?, Vol. 12
"When one has loved someone, the hate it turns into when things go wrong only runs that much deeper."

|Aneko Yusagi
|The Rising of the Shield Hero Vol 01
Legends are born through evil. The more evil you were, the better you’d be remembered.

|Aneko Yusagi
|The Rising of the Shield Hero Vol 02
It wasn’t devastation that spurs you to action, or to revenge. It was deeper and sadder. 
It was the devastation that the clock couldn’t be turned back.

|Higurashi no Naku Koro ni Sotsu, Ep. 15
Keiichi: You know what I think a friend is?
         Even if you're not with someone, or don't want to see someone again,
         when you see them down the line,
         you both know you'll always have that relationship with them.
         That's what it means to be friends with someone.
Shion: The word "friendship" doesn't shackle you to someone.
       If you think you always have to be with someone to be their friend,
       then I think you've got the wrong idea about friendship.

|Rudeus Greyrat
|Mushoku Tensei by Rifujin na Magonote, Vol. 06
"The easiest moment to fall into despair is the moment in which you see a glimmer of hope."
--- Not every person gets to live their live freely.

|Yanagino Kanata
|The Faraway Paladin, Vol. 1
Concentrate your eyes on darkness, your ears on silence, and your thoughts on death.
For only amidst dark shall there be light, and only in silence the word, and only in dying life.
--- From the Proverbs of Gracefeel, God of the Flame

|Yanagino Kanata
|The Faraway Paladin, Vol. 2
The greatest trap one can fall into when trying to do something good
is to make the mistake of thinking that because you are acting with a good goal in mind,
you are bound to get results.
Even if you decide to do something good, the people around you won’t lend you their help unconditionally,
nor will the gods bless you with protection.
Results come only by setting a reasonable goal and using appropriate methods to achieve it.

|Sanetoshi Watase
|Mawaru Penguindrum, Ep. 23
"This world is made of countless boxes.
 People bend and stuff their bodies into their own boxes.
 And stay there for the rest of their lives.
 And inside the box, they eventually forget:
 What they looked like.
 What they loved; who they loved. 
 That’s why I’m getting out of my box."

|Ano Natsu de Matteru (Waiting in the Summer)
|Ep. 9
Just like joy exists because of sadness,
someone is always crying in the shadow of someone's happiness.
Even if you know that, strong feelings don't go away.

|Vanitas no Carte (The Case Study of Vanitas)
|Ep. 19
Listen to me. Everyone is alone.
That doesn't change whether you are a human or a vampire.
You can never completely understand someone.
Most people live and die without even understanding themselves.
Nevertheless, it is for that very reason people seek each other out to share the warmth of an emotional bond.
Someday, when I no longer walk this earth, may you find someone to snuggle up with just as we are now.
Or should I say, I'm sure there will be such a person...
...as long as you do not close your heart.
Open your heart, and you will never be lonely even when you are alone, just as both of you are here for me.

|Ryo Shirakome
|Arifureta: From Commonplace to World's Strongest, Vol. 6
Personally, I think power should be wielded with a clear intent.
You don't do something because you have the power to.
It’s because you want to do something that you obtain the power necessary to achieve it.
If you really think you're obligated to do things just because you have the strength to,
then for you, strength is nothing more than a curse.

|86 - Eighty Six, Ep. 8
K.: Humans were not ready to have freedom and equality.
    And I don't think we'll ever be.
L.: You're just saying that to justify your despair!
    It's wrong to sit back and let this happen!
K.: You're free to speak of your hopes and ideals,
    but you won't persuade anyone.
    That's why you came to me, right?
    Hope and despair are the same thing.
    You want something, and you can't have it.
    They're two names for two sides of the same thing.

|86 - Eighty Six, Ep. 18
A blade that cuts too well will either be avoided, or used until it breaks.

|Made in Abyss,  Wandering Twilight
Some dive in the abyss, as if hypnotised.
Why are they doing that?
Because they realise it hides shining mysteries.
They have been bewitched by their glowing light.
They travel through the unknown, looking for the truth
and die in the hole that sucked the life out of them.
Over there, they get lost in the shadows
and come back to life as a mystery, making one with the abyss.
It's a second birth, full of both
curse and blessing.

|Asato Asato
|86 - Eighty Six, Vol. 1
"What kinda dumb ass hangs himself just because he knows he's gonna die tomorrow?
Even if you have no choice but to walk to the gallows, you can still choose how you're gonna climb the steps.
We've made our choice. All that's left is to live by that."
